# Problem solving:


1. devise a plan for solving problems
2. master common problem solving patterns

The styps for solving any problem:

1. Understand the problem.
2. Explore concrete examples.
3. break it down.
4. solve/simplify.
5. look back and refactor.



# Explore concrete examples:

can help understand the problem better.

you know the input and output.

what is the input and output.

1. start with simple example with the input and output.
2. progress to more complex examples.
3. explore examples with empty inputs.
4. explore with invalid input.

- Example:

Write a function which takes in a strign and reutrns counts of each character in the string.

if I asked to solve this problem. 

charCount('aaaa')  // {a:4}
charCount('hello') // {h:1, e:1, l:2, o:1}

more complex:

if the input in "my phone number is 45454" what the output if we shoud count for spaces.
"Hello hi"  upperCase and lowerCase.

empty input:

charCount('') => null or false or errro


 

3. break it down:

write down every step for solving the problem. comments guid 

write out the steps you need to take.

- Example:

Write a function which takes in a strign and reutrns counts of each character in the string.

function charCount(str)
// make object to return at the end
// loop over string, for each character...
// if the char in a key in object, add one to count
// if the char is not object, add it and set value to 1
// if char is space, period, etc don't do anything.
// return object



4. solve/simplify:

write code, you may only solve 80%, try to ignore the hard part.
do the know part you know how to do.


* Simplify:

1. find the core difficulty in what you are trying to do.
2. Temporarily ignore the difficulty.
3. write a simplified solution.
4. Incorporate thet difficulty back in.

Example: 

Write a function which takes in a strign and reutrns counts of each character in the string.

function charCount(str) {
  // const tally = {};
  // for (let char of str) {
  //   tally[char] = (tally[char] || 0) + 1;
  // }
  // return tally;

  return str
    .replace(/[\s0-9]/g, "")
    .toLowerCase()
    .trim()
    .split('')
    .reduce((tally, vote) => {
      tally[vote] = (tally[vote] || 0) + 1;
      return tally;
    }, {});
}

console.log(charCount("hH  ell o3232"));

if you have diffeculty in looping hard code the first 3 cherkters.
you will find the pattern to do in loop.


5. look back and refactor:

* can you check the result.
* can you derive the result differently.
* can you understand it at a glance.
* can you use the result or method for some other problem.
* can you imporove the preformance of your solutuin.
* can you think of other ways to refactor.
* how have other people solve this problem. 

